#summary PowerTools Requirements - AppDataInspector (active)

= Introduction =
This is a new tool. Original creator Mihai Cadariu.

This is a tool that acts both as popup (accessed from context menu or ribbon button) as well as tab in all views. The tool reads all ApplicationData for the current Tridion item and displays it in a table with following information on each row (AppId, Data, Type).

Difficulty: Easy.

= Details =

==Description==

It performs a very simplistic deserialization of the data byte array (which can be improved greatly, although for the sole purpose of visualizing the data the current implementation might be enough --- you can check the service AppDataInspector.svc for details).

Things to note:

 * tool uses a popup and a tab GUI extensions, which both make use of a common worker class (which does the actual job)... so I can reuse the AJAX code

 * there is no Master tab, or Master tab control that would define the ProgressBar, Status, Dialog, Mask, etc. So the tab I created (AppDataInspectorTab.ascx) is a stand-alone control defining all these items locally. Don't know if/how we can use some kind of master layout with hierarchical controls in .NET? Is there a way?

 * the AppData is displayed in an HTML table. Not very elegant. We could use a Tridion GUI list control, but don't know how. Any thoughts on this? Or even better - examples?

== Audience ==
Admins

*Version #*
1.0

Original release date: 29-Oct-2011

Last updated: 01-Nov-2011

*Compatibility*
  * SDL Tridion 2011

*Contributor(s)*

Mihai Cadariu

*Document Author(s)*

Mihai Cadariu

== Purpose ==

Displays the AppData of the given item for the purpose of inspecting what actually is in there. Note that AppData currently is only available programmatically, so this tool is only for developers for knowing what kind of information is stored as AppData.

== Installation ==

Installed with the whole Powertools package

=== Upgrade ===

N/A.

Removal Instructions - N/A.

= Future Requirements =
|| ID || Description || Scope || Comments ||
|| 1 || Tool should also allow the 'search' of AppData. Either by Tridion item (id, type, publication, etc) or by AppDataId (name) or by AppData Type or some kind of generic search. || TBD || AppData "Search" functionality currently not available through CoreService. ||
|| 2 || ... || || ||
|| 3 || ... || || ||
|| 4 || ... || || ||