#summary Not all SDL Tridion GUI extensions are PowerTools.

= Introduction =

To clarify what tools are "done," we collect thoughts and plans on potential tools here. Move your tool to the [Requirements] index when it's in development or ready for release.

= Details =

== New Suggestions ==
  * ComponentPublisher, (search helps replace functionality, but component publisher useful for Tridion folder publish)
  * FieldContentCopier
  * UnlocalizeChildren (based on URI)
  * [XMLFieldRenamer] (see [http://groups.google.com/group/tridion-powertools/browse_thread/thread/b641aa78f181da63 discussion])
  * Copy WebDAVUrl to clipboard (this is what Dominic is currently hacking on privately in an attempt to grok anguilla before moving on to more ambitious functionality) Could also form part of a "Developer toolbar". (Further suggestions for developer toolbar, anyone?)
  * ReportGenerator to be able to output the results of CME functionality. (e.g. output a "where used" or search results to .csv or show in copy-friendly HTML view)

Not all extensions are PowerTools, but with other extension work needing similar setups (and being developed by the same community), it makes sense to collect "PowerTool candidates" here. Feel free to add and update suggestions here.

  * Chris Summers brainstormed an idea with the Skype group for a micro-site publisher functionality that would take a zip file possibly from a third-party and publish it out to a site. This could be done via variants, treating the zip as a multimedia component but alternatives exist.
   * Note from Julian. I demo'ed this to HP using Dreamweaver as the entry point. Works quite OK but is a technical person's way of getting a microsite imported and published. If the DW import API could be utilized :)