#summary Add information about the tools you use to set up a Tridion environment, program for, and maintain the PowerTools.


= Introduction =

Tridion consultants and developers come from a variety of backgrounds and amount of experience. Even the most experienced programers may not use the same tools. This wiki page let's us share example tools, plugins, and related information to smooth out the development process.

We want more time to focus on requirements and code by making the tools part easy!

*Contents*
<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />

Add info for fellow developers that need info on related SVN clients, VMs, IDEs, refactoring tools, and even UI shortcuts. 

== Tools ==
===Source ===
*SourceControl* [SourceControl#Tortoise Tortoise] (Explorer-based) or [SourceControl#ankhsvn ankhsvn] (Visual Studio) for ways to connect to the SVN-based source
    * Can also edit wiki pages "offline" (Suggestion by Dominic)
    * Tip: as a general "good practice" do not put your project files on your Desktop or other "special" user folders since these will have restricted permissions that the CMS (or other systems) may not have access to (thanks Hao for the tip).

===Refactoring Tools===
Refactoring is a method of cleaning up code for readability without changing functionality. It helps to have regression tests to confirm nothing's really changed. It's associated with fixing code when it "smells."
    * ReSharper (preferred) for refactoring (application for free license approved, contact a team member for the key)
    * Refactor free plug-in for Visual Studio http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/visualc/bb737896
    * CodeRush free tool (suggestion by Mihai)

===Diagraming and Requirements===
  * Visio for diagrams
  * http://www.websequencediagrams.com/ for swim lane or sequence diagrams
 * [https://chrome.google.com/webstore/search/wireframe Chrome-based wireframe tools] (Chrome Web Store search)

===Communication===
  * IRC http://webchat.freenode.net/ channel #tridion<br/>IRC may be quiet now, but will likely pick up as we get into more development -- use the forum and wiki for now. Email a lead if you're interested in joining the Skype chat.

===Builds===
  * Build scripts such as Maven and NANT

===Microsoft Stack of Development Tools===
  * *Visual Studio*
  * *Internet Information Services (IIS)* may be unfamiliar for developers used to working on the code-side of Web development. Access it by running {{{inetmgr}}} on the CME server. Use IIS to create the virtual directories for the PowerTools editor and model folders in the [nononsenseguide].

== Browsers ==
  * The CME is very dependent on browser cache. Tip to clear cache in Chrome: CTRL-Shift-DEL (this domain only?).
  * You can also disable Firefox cache by writing "about:config" in the address bar and setting network.http.use-cache to false.

== Frameworks and Languages ==
Some topics you might want to learn about or share your expertise in.

  * JavaScript, JQuery, Anguilla...
  * ASP.NET
  * Model View Controller (MVC)...
    * On virtual directories: In IIS under WebUI\Models and WebUI\Editors, both should have a virutal directory called CME under them.
  * About GUI extensions for Tridion 2011
  * Tridion 2011 SP1 delta info

== Testing and Troubleshooting ==
  * How to [DeactivateJSMinifier Deactivate JS Minifier] to troubleshoot JavaScript  
  * Also see [Testing] page.