#summary With such a evocative title as "governance" I know you have to read this "road map" page.
#labels Phase-Requirements

#sidebar TableOfContents

<wiki:toc max_depth="1" />
<g:plusone size="medium"></g:plusone>


= Ownership =
The Tridion Power Tools are a community-driven project (guided by a little help from the Tridion MVP and Community Builders). This work is voluntary and reflects the dedication participants have towards the Tridion solution, community, and this project. We appreciate your help on this open source project!

= Process and Roadmap =

Though community-driven, the Power Tools project needs leads to guide the project forward. Leads should encourage participation but should work towards delivering functionality and not be held up by slow adoption.
  * 3 MVP technical leads
  * 1 MVP functional lead
  * 5-10 community contributors overall
  * 2-3 community contributors per tool
  * As many testers as are available
  * Encourage participation, increase visibility (blog, tweet, forums) and keep an eye out for replacements for positions
= Product Management =
Requirements will come from old tool(s), lacking functionality in current product, and solicited feedback.

  * Functional lead for requirements, tool prioritization, and soliciting community feedback
  * Communicates bugs and issues and usefulness to SDL (informal via email, Ideas submissions)
  * Managing acceptance criteria, categorizing tools
== Design and change management ==
  * Simple and informal
  * Technical leads

*_Project team should review individual tools at least twice a year. Consider scheduling a 6-month review at project onset._*