#summary Everyone needs help sometime

<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />

= Wiki =

== How do I update this wiki? ==
First you need access to the site, see the announcement
See [http://code.google.com/p/support/wiki/WikiSyntax Google Code Wiki] Syntax or select "More examples" link from any page.

== I have lots of edits for the wiki and/or an intermittent internet connection! ==
To update the Wiki "offline" (over SVN):

  *  Connect to https://tridion-2011-power-tools.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/ tridion-2011-power-tools
  * Use your google account for this site but the [http://code.google.com/p/tridion-2011-power-tools/source/checkout generated password] instead of your google password.
  * Use your favorite text editor (but without the browser-based preview).

Or per the [http://code.google.com/p/support/wiki/WikiSyntax#Localizing_Wiki_Content the Google WikiSyntax site]) use:
{{{svn checkout https://yourproject.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/ yourdirectory -username yourusername}}} .

= Development =
== I'm new to XYZ technology, where do I start? ==
For help with relevant development tools and technology visit the [DevelopmentTools Tools Wiki Page].

= Communication =

== The default Google Groups site doesn't have the +1 button. ==
Check out and bookmark the Google Groups forum version at: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/tridion-powertools
(looks better on mobile devices too)

== What do these terms, nicknames, and organizations mean? ==
Need help with the people, organizations, and seemingly random terminology? Visit and update the [Definitions] section!

== IRC ==
Much of the team's communication takes place in a secret Skype chat. (OK - it's not that secret! You can be invited simply for the sake of asking.) We also have an IRC channel. Some members of the project are IRC-friendly, and you may find them there
[irc://irc.freenode.org/tridion]