#summary How to install the power tools on your server.
#labels Featured,Phase-Implementation

----
*_To help develop a !PowerTool see [nononsenseguide] instead._*
----

= Installation guide =

The following describes how to get the libraries (dll), create the necessary virtual directories in IIS, and set up the CME system configuration file. We'll eventually revisit the options for a [DevelopmentTools#Tools build script]. 

== Prerequisites and Assumptions ==
  # Be sure you have a [http://www.sdltridionworld.com/articles/sdltridion2011/tutorials/creating-development-vm-1.aspx Tridion Developer Virtual Machine] or other working SDL Tridion 2011 or higher environment
  # This assumes Tridion is installed in the default location for 64-bit Windows. 
  # These instructions will assume that you have checked out the power tools to the following directory:<br/>
*C:\powertools*

== Get the code == 
First get the code from the repository following the guidance at 
http://code.google.com/p/tridion-2011-power-tools/source/checkout

Read-only copy at
http://tridion-2011-power-tools.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/

== Add virtual directories in IIS == 
Open the IIS management snap-in.
 
 # Open the Tridion web site, and find: *WebUI/Editors*
 # Create a new virtual directory within Editors, called !PowerTools
 # Configure its physical path as: *C:\powertools\!PowerTools.Editor\*
 # Open the Tridion web site, and find: *WebUI/Models*
 # Create a new virtual directory within Models, called !PowerTools
 # Configure its physical path as: *C:\powertools\!PowerTools.Model\*

_The name and location of the virtual directory are referenced in the configuration. See below._

== Edit the Tridion GUI Extensions configuration == 

Open the configuration file: 
C:\Program Files (x86)\Tridion\web\WebUI\WebRoot\Configuration\System.config

Locate the '<editors/>' element and add the power tools editor.

{{{
    <editor name="PowerTools" xmlns="http://www.sdltridion.com/2009/GUI/Configuration">
      <installpath>C:\powertools\PowerTools.Editor\</installpath>
      <configuration>Configuration\Editor.config</configuration>
      <vdir>PowerTools</vdir>
    </editor>
}}}

Locate the '<models/>' element and add the power tools editor.

{{{
    <model name="PowerTools" xmlns="http://www.sdltridion.com/2009/GUI/Configuration">
      <installpath>C:\powertools\PowerTools.Model\</installpath>
      <configuration>Configuration\Model.config</configuration>
      <vdir>PowerTools</vdir>
    </model>
}}}


== Add the Tridion Web.UI.Core DLL  == 

  # Open the Solution in Visual Studio 2010.
  # Open the PowerTools.Common project
  # Remove the Tridion.Web.UI.Core reference with the yellow warning icon
  # Add the Tridion.Web.UI.Core reference from your server at 'C:\Program Files\Tridion\web\WebUI\WebRoot\bin'
  # Repeat the same for the PowerTools.Editor project
  # Build and compile(Ctrl-Shift-B shortcut)

== Update the URL to the Core Service (if not running CMS on http://localhost)  == 
  # Open the PowerTools.Common project
  # Open the Client.cs file located in the CoreService folder
  # Edit the Endpoint to your CMS URL with port number.  For example, var endpoint = new EndpointAddress("http://localhost:8080/WebServices/CoreService.svc/wsHttp_2010");

== Final step == 
[ClearBrowserCache Clear your browser cache].

== Test == 
  # Select a Folder and then choose the 'Count items' PowerTool. 