#summary Project - Updates

= Updates =

(31-July-2012) Check out Dominic's branch and [https://powertools.flowdock.com/invitations/95cbb928d8bd132a537357de32d028f80722aa8a-main join the flow] for progress on Component Synchronizer.

(30-June-2012) 
We're "live" with:
 * Application Data Inspector
 * Count Items
 * Image Uploader
 * ItemXML
 * Page Publisher
 * PowerTools Help
 * Schema Documentation (context menu)

(16-June-2012) Two weeks to first release.

(02-Mar-2012) Great news, FlowDock's CEO, [https://twitter.com/#!/mutru Otto Hilska], gave us a one-year extension. See you on our [https://powertools.flowdock.com/invitations/95cbb928d8bd132a537357de32d028f80722aa8a-main FlowDock collaboration site].

(18-Feb-2012) Thanks to Peter and Albert for making an installer and a single-tool install screen. Wow! Get latest to see these and the other new tools.

(29-Feb-2012) Alvin here. Demo to almost all of SDL WCMS (Professional Services) went well (whew!). Thanks all for getting code checked in. We'll be merging Component Synchronizer and breaking down the work to meet our Q2 deadline for release 1. Any other ideas or questions? [https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/tridion-powertools Let us know].

(18-Feb-2012) Thanks to Peter and Albert for making an installer and a single-tool install screen. Wow! Get latest to see these and the other new tools.

(02-Feb-2012) Countdown to company-wide internal SDL Web Content Management Services (Professional Services) demo. *Alvin will get latest and test Friday, 24-Feb-2011.* . Working tools only please, otherwise place your button or context-menu option in a separate tab or section as a "sneak peek" of what you're working on.

(22-Jan-2012) Congrats to the 2012 [http://www.sdltridionworld.com/community/mvp_award/mvp-award-2012.aspx SDL Tridion MVPs]! 

(01-Jan-2012) New Year new members, but the same plan. We've made sample and working tools as planned. We're working towards a tentative 2012 Q2 release date and need the most help with Core Service work on Component Synchronizer and extending existing functionality.

(18-Dec-2011) As we approach the holidays, we wanted to thank everyone for their work on the PowerTools. Please enjoy any time-off or vacations you have--you definitely deserve it. Feel free to catch us afterwards, or hole yourself away to crank out a tool or two. Either way works! :-)

(17-Dec-2011) FlowDock [https://powertools.flowdock.com/invitations/95cbb928d8bd132a537357de32d028f80722aa8a-main FlowDock] (collaboration site) grows to 23 participants. Looking to work with other Tridion talent in exchange for some contribution to an (I'm tempted to write "the") open source extensions project? Check us out! (psst, power users, QA, support, and analysts... help, I'm surrounded by technicals! --Alvin) 

(30-Nov-2011) We're researching an IRC-like communication option with [http://flowdock.com FlowDock]. Anyone can [https://powertools.flowdock.com/invitations/95cbb928d8bd132a537357de32d028f80722aa8a-main join the "flow"] and conversations are saved. The Web-based tool has contemporary social media features including hash tagging (#), /emotes (/me does something...), and Google Account integration. (Thanks Vesa for the suggestion to get a free license. We've valid through May 2012)

(29-Nov-2011) Team is making progress on ComponentSynchronizer (it really is hard, thanks Angel, Jaime, and Hao for sticking with it) and PagePublisher (ready for testing, thanks John!). Great work all!

(09-Nov-2011) Great work on the project. So good, our application to JetBrains for a community license for [http://www.jetbrains.com/resharper/download/ ReSharper] was approved. Contact a fellow developer or check the Skype chat for today to get the license. It's good for a year, use it well (but only on the PowerTools). :-)

<font color="red">*Do not share the actual key on this site or in the Google Group PowerTools forum. Remember replying to forum emails will post them publicly!*</font>

(08-Nov-2011) Welcome new team members. Don't hesitate to use this project to learn more about Tridion 2011 extensions, the Anguilla framework, open source projects, or to honestly build out your resume. All we ask for is a little code and some wiki updates. :-)

(29-Oct-2011) Nice job and thanks on the work on the [Logo].

(26-Oct-2011) A "small" milestone and BIG congrats to the team for the first _non-example_ tool, CountItems. Nice work to [http://code.google.com/u/110283915126182123830/updates Mihai aka mitza13] and to [http://code.google.com/p/tridion-2011-power-tools/people/list everyone] who's put in coding time, answered questions, and debated approach.

<font color="red">(21-Oct-2011) The latest changes done to this project (today, Friday) break the System.Config and IIS Virtual Dir because we renamed the PowerTools - Editor project to PowerTools.Editor!</font>

(19-Oct-2011) The original priority list has been "wikified" into [Requirements]. Review the new list and update, sort, comment, or share. http://code.google.com/p/tridion-2011-power-tools/wiki/Requirements

(19-Oct-2011) We're on Skype. Message or email a technical lead for an invite.

(18-Oct-2011) We're refactoring the wiki with a new navigation (great suggestion from [http://code.google.com/u/107356881402740145015/ Angel Puntero]).

== Care to help? ==
(16-Oct-2011) Join: [http://groups.google.com/group/tridion-powertools the discussion group], introduce yourself, and follow the next steps in the [http://code.google.com/p/tridion-2011-power-tools/wiki/Tasks Tasks Wiki Page].

(03-Oct-2011) With a nudge from Chris Summers and code from Yoav Niran, the Tridion MVP and Community Builders group started work on "rebooting" the Tridion PowerTools for Tridion 2011 (SP1).

<wiki:gadget url="http://google-code-feed-gadget.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/gadget.xml" up_feeds="http://groups.google.com/group/tridion-powertools/feed/atom_v1_0_msgs.xml" width="600" height="1000" border="0"/>