#summary Updates - Latest Version

== Disclaimer ==
As a set of extensions without support from a commercial organization, the Tridion PowerTools are released "as is" and user assumes all responsibility for their use.

=== Open Source Project ===
The source code is open and  developed, supported, and updated by a community open to Tridion developers, consultants, partners, and customers.

The current PowerTools version requires Tridion Content Management System configuration and a manual installation of library files. An installer may follow shortly. 

Since the PowerTools is a collection of tools, we can update specific tool updates here as well.


= RC 1 =
(30-Jun-2012) The PowerTools extensions are ready for testing. Please test in a developer or test environment.

== Known issues and recommendations == 

 * Remove any manually-installed PowerTools before running the installer. Remove or comment-out your Model and Editor nodes in `%TRIDION_CM_HOME%\Web\WebUI\WebRoot\Configuration\System.config`.
 * Image uploader may delete source binaries in some cases. See issue 35.
 * Item XML display spaces incorrectly. See issue 32.
 * Clear browser cache or manually increment System.config "modification" setting. See issue 25.
 * Count item results browser title sometimes shows "untitled." See issue 29.
 * Progress bar doesn't work in Internet Explorer per issue 6.
 * [http://code.google.com/p/tridion-2011-power-tools/issues/list See or report additional issues].

If you have any problems, contact the PowerTools group:

 * In near real-time [https://powertools.flowdock.com/invitations/95cbb928d8bd132a537357de32d028f80722aa8a-main on the FlowDock]
 * In the [http://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/tridion-powertools discussion group]
 * On Twitter #TridionPowerTools

(24-Oct-2011) CountItems released as version 1.1. No installer just yet, but functionality is intact.

----

Latest version: 0.8. Release date: October 15, 2011.

We continuing work on the 0.9 release, the working draft can be downloaded from the trunk. Follow the discussion on http://groups.google.com/group/tridion-powertools.