#summary Index for Requirements

Links to requirements (add more as we go along):

  * ComponentSynchronizer
  * PagePublisher
  * (new suggestion) ComponentPublisher, (search helps replace functionality, but component publisher useful for Tridion folder publish)
  * (new suggestion) FieldContentCopier
  * (new suggestion) UnlocalizeChildren (based on URI)
  * (new suggestion) [XMLFieldRenamer] (see [http://groups.google.com/group/tridion-powertools/browse_thread/thread/b641aa78f181da63 discussion])
<wiki:comment>
hint: each row has 9 fields, use a tr to wrap 9 td's
<tr>
   <td>{name}</td>
   <td>{description}</td>
   <td>{audience}</td>
   <td>{CME location}</td>
   <td>{author or idea from}</td>
   <td>{priority}</td>
   <td>{difficulty}</td>
   <td>{status}</td>
   <td>{notes}</td>
</tr>
</wiki:comment>


= Candidates =
Not all extensions are PowerTools, but with other extension work needing similar setups (and being developed by the same community), it makes sense to collect "PowerTool candidates" here. Feel free to add and update suggestions here.

If there's interest, move up useful ideas up to the above list. At some point we can create a separate extensions group, discussion, or wiki.

  * Chris Summers brainstormed an idea with the Skype group for a micro-site publisher functionality that would take a zip file possibly from a third-party and publish it out to a site. This could be done via variants, treating the zip as a multimedia component but alternatives exist.
   * Note from Julian. I demo'ed this to HP using Dreamweaver as the entry point. Works quite OK but is a technical person's way of getting a microsite imported and published. If the DW import API could be utilized :)